_publications/2024-02-16-Black-Hole-to-Halo-Mass-Relation.md, before:

---
title: "Black-Hole-to-Halo Mass Relation From UNIONS Weak Lensing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2024-02-16-Black-Hole-to-Halo-Mass-Relation
excerpt: 'This is the Chinese translation edition of A. Zee&apos;s textbook quantum field theory in a nutshell'
date: 2024-02-16
venue: 'submitted to AAS Journals'
paperurl: 'https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024arXiv240210740L/abstract'
citation: ' Li, Q., Kilbinger, M., Luo, W., et al.\ 2024, arXiv:2402.10740. doi:10.48550/arXiv.2402.10740'
---

<a href='https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024arXiv240210740L/abstract'>Link to the paper</a>


This letter presents, for the first time, direct constraints on the black-hole-to-halo-mass relation using weak gravitational lensing measurements. We construct type I and type II Active Galactic Nuclei (AGNs) samples from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), with a mean redshift of 0.4-0.1 for type I (type II) AGNs. This sample is cross-correlated with weak lensing shear from the Ultraviolet Near Infrared Northern Survey (UNIONS). We compute the excess surface mass density of the halos associated with 36,181 AGNs from 94,308,561 lensed galaxies and fit the halo mass in bins of black-hole mass. We find that more massive AGNs reside in more massive halos. We see no evidence of dependence on AGN type or redshift in the black-hole-to-halo-mass relationship when systematic errors in the measured black-hole masses are included. Our results are consistent with previous measurements for non-AGN galaxies. At a fixed black-hole mass, our weak-lensing halo masses are consistent with galaxy rotation curves, but significantly lower than galaxy clustering measurements. Finally, our results are broadly consistent with state-of-the-art hydro-dynamical cosmological simulations, providing a new constraint for black-hole masses in simulations.

<!-- Recommended citation: Chaoli Translation Collaboration (2022). "Chinese translation of A. Zee's Quantum Field Theory in a Nutshell"  <i>USTC press</i> -->

Commit message:

modified:   _publications/2024-02-16-Black-Hole-to-Halo-Mass-Relation.md

_publications/2024-02-16-Black-Hole-to-Halo-Mass-Relation.md, after:

---
title: "Black-Hole-to-Halo Mass Relation From UNIONS Weak Lensing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2024-02-16-Black-Hole-to-Halo-Mass-Relation
excerpt: 'This letter presents, for the first time, direct constraints on the black-hole-to-halo-mass relation using weak gravitational lensing measurements. We construct type I and type II Active Galactic Nuclei (AGNs) samples from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), with a mean redshift of 0.4-0.1 for type I (type II) AGNs. This sample is cross-correlated with weak lensing shear from the Ultraviolet Near Infrared Northern Survey (UNIONS). We compute the excess surface mass density of the halos associated with 36,181 AGNs from 94,308,561 lensed galaxies and fit the halo mass in bins of black-hole mass. We find that more massive AGNs reside in more massive halos. We see no evidence of dependence on AGN type or redshift in the black-hole-to-halo-mass relationship when systematic errors in the measured black-hole masses are included. Our results are consistent with previous measurements for non-AGN galaxies. At a fixed black-hole mass, our weak-lensing halo masses are consistent with galaxy rotation curves, but significantly lower than galaxy clustering measurements. Finally, our results are broadly consistent with state-of-the-art hydro-dynamical cosmological simulations, providing a new constraint for black-hole masses in simulations.'
date: 2024-02-16
venue: 'arxiv preprint. Submitted to AAS Journals'
paperurl: 'https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024arXiv240210740L/abstract'
citation: ' Li, Q., Kilbinger, M., Luo, W., et al.\ 2024, arXiv:2402.10740. doi:10.48550/arXiv.2402.10740'
---

<a href='https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024arXiv240210740L/abstract'>Link to the paper</a>

This letter presents, for the first time, direct constraints on the black-hole-to-halo-mass relation using weak gravitational lensing measurements. We construct type I and type II Active Galactic Nuclei (AGNs) samples from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), with a mean redshift of 0.4-0.1 for type I (type II) AGNs. This sample is cross-correlated with weak lensing shear from the Ultraviolet Near Infrared Northern Survey (UNIONS). We compute the excess surface mass density of the halos associated with 36,181 AGNs from 94,308,561 lensed galaxies and fit the halo mass in bins of black-hole mass. We find that more massive AGNs reside in more massive halos. We see no evidence of dependence on AGN type or redshift in the black-hole-to-halo-mass relationship when systematic errors in the measured black-hole masses are included. Our results are consistent with previous measurements for non-AGN galaxies. At a fixed black-hole mass, our weak-lensing halo masses are consistent with galaxy rotation curves, but significantly lower than galaxy clustering measurements. Finally, our results are broadly consistent with state-of-the-art hydro-dynamical cosmological simulations, providing a new constraint for black-hole masses in simulations.

<!-- Recommended citation: Chaoli Translation Collaboration (2022). "Chinese translation of A. Zee's Quantum Field Theory in a Nutshell"  <i>USTC press</i> -->
